---
title: 128th session - Recklessly Racing Resources 
---

Apart from some of our usual members, we had a influx of players who had found us at the societies and clubs fair a few weeks ago. This session had three long games juggling resources, whilst another table went on a magical automobile, train and cycle ride!

The session started with a shortish game of transport links - [Railroad Ink Shining Yellow Edition][RIY]. This is an interesting roll'n'write game where you are using the rolled dice to draw roads and tracks to connect up your terminals on your grid. Four players had a quick base game, with Neil coming out on top by a few points ahead of Jeremy, Graham and Kathy. Last at the club in [session 114][114] if you want to know more.

The other 3 tables got stuck into some long games - [Nippon][Nip], [Shackleton Base A Journey To The Moon][SB] and one of the new boards from the [Lost Ruins of Arnak Adventure Chest][LRAAC].

[Nippon][Nip] - Steph or Dave?

[Lost Ruins of Arnak Adventure Chest][LRAAC] - Kathy

[Shackleton Base A Journey To The Moon][SB] - Darren

Whilst these epic games were playing out, [Res Arcana][RA] was chosen for [another play][91], this time with the [Lux et Tenebrae][RAL] expansion that adds in demons and scrolls as well as a smattering of new artifacts, mages and places.

Four mages - Iain and Jeremy who had played before, taking on roles of Artificer and Necromancer respectively, and Neil and Graham who hadn't played before, playing Alchemist and Diviner. The game is about duelling wizards who must create a magical engine from the 8 artifacts you are dealt to enable you to create the resources needed to take over one (or more) places of power to then generate victory points before your rival mages and win the match.

It starts off relatively slowly as you have limited resources at your call, but there is always a way to get out some artifacts to help start accumulating materials. Graham and Iain started collecting a smattering of all the resources, where as Neil and Jeremy went down a darker path collecting mostly death and fire. Jeremy's Necromancer was first to afford (just) a place of power - getting the Hell's gate - pipping Neil to it. Next Graham's Diviner snagged the Alchemist's Tower, but soon after Neil had changed tack to allow him to take over a Crystal Keep. Unfortunately, though Iain's Artificer had bought a nice Warrior's Hall, he was rather annoyed by all the places going that he had eyed up.

The Necromancer (Jeremy) busily used fire and demons (sometimes illusionary ones) to power up the Gate of Hell (of course!). Neil's Alchemist was trying to enable more artifacts from his deck to power up the Crystal Keep. The Diviner (Graham) decided to play his luck on the Wind-up man, which can generate a lot of resources if you leave them on long enough, in order to get the materials needed to power up his Tower. Iain's Artificer finally bought the Coral Castle, but this can't be powered up so he then concentrated on using his Ring of Midas to create gold to buy up more monuments (each worth 1 or 2 victory points).

It was all looking reasonably close until Jeremy scrapped up enough gold to buy a monument and then got very lucky and drew the Pyramids - the only monument worth 3 victory points (as it doesn't do anything else). This pretty much scuppered everyone else's chances as Graham had pushed his luck - keeping his resources on his Wind-up man so couldn't access them, Neil didn't have any chance to draw and play more artifacts, and Iain had just run out of gold buying a monument just before Jeremy (only worth one point though!). Iain decided there was no point continuing and used his Coral Castles power to "Check victory points now" (rather than once everyone had passed for a round) and Jeremy was declared supreme mage (for now)!

Simon turned up halfway through [Res Arcana][RA], so he challenged himself to a quick game of [Gate][Gate] whilst he was waiting for the mages to finish. Unfortunately his villagers didn't do very well against the denizens of the gate this time around.

[Flamme Rouge][FR] - Simon

The next session is the 24th of June, do come along and join us, bring some of your favourite or new games or suggest what you would like to play in advance on [Discord][Contact] and we will see what we can arrange.


* Total Session Attendance: 17
* Board Games: 7

	* [Railroad Ink Shining Yellow Edition][RIY]
	* [Nippon][Nip]
	* [Shackleton Base A Journey To The Moon][SB]
	* [Lost Ruins of Arnak Adventure Chest][LRAAC]
	* [Res Arcana][RA]
	* [Flamme Rouge][FR]
	* [Gate][Gate]

[Gate]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.Gate.Link}}
[Nip]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.Nippon.Link}}
[SB]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.ShackletonBaseAJourneyToTheMoon.Link}}
[RA]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.ResArcana.Link}}
[RAL]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.ResArcanaLux.Link}}
[FR]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.FlammeRouge.Link}}
[LRAAC]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.LostRuinsOfArnakAdventureChest.Link}}
[RIY]: {{site.data.BoardGameLinks.RailroadInkShiningYellowEdition.Link}}


[91]: /2024/11/13/nintyfirst-session.html
[114]: /2025/10/29/114th-session.html


https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/305752/gate

[Contact]: /Contact.html
